[MUSIC]
So far we have solved the Knapsack problem
for a special, special, special case.
It doesn't seem very interesting, but
we get to use the same ideas to try to
solve a slightly more general case.
What will be this less special,
special case?
The case when the item
values are small integers.
So every item, as before,
has a size and a value, but
the size is no longer equal to the value.
Their size can be arbitrary,
but the item values are small
integers in the range one through
N where N is could be fixed.
How are we going to solve this?
Well, we will extend previous ideas
from the special, special case.
How did we solve the special,
special case?
We used dynamic programming.
So let's start again
with dynamic programming.
The idea of dynamic programming, we have
to figure out what interface to define
given a partial solution for
the first i items.
We want to remember enough
of the partial solution so
that we're able to complete
the solution optimally.
So what will we do?
We'll add some stuff to this spot.
We'll complete things optimally here for
an arbitrary beginning.
So we need an interface that
tells us what to remember here.
What to remember.
Before, we remembered for
every i, for the first i items,
whether there was a subset that
could achieve a certain value v for
every possible value v.
Now again we're interested
in the first i items and
we are interested in a particular value v.
But in order to figure out
whether we can add some
stuff on top of a solution,
what are we going to do?
We're going to add some stuff,
add some stuff here, and for
this we need to remember the size.
So, we must remember the size.
How are we going to remember the size?
The size can be arbitrary, can be small,
can be large, can be long numbers,
difficult things.
The sums there are many,
an exponential number of possibilities.
So what we'll do is,
we'll remember the interesting
sizes inside the table entries.
Inside A[i,v] we'll remember the size.
Let's be more specific, in A[i,v],
we will remember the size
is achievable for
subsets of our first i items of value v.
Really?
Not quite.
For any subset of our
first items of value v,
there could be many
different sizes achievable.
All we need to remember is the minimum,
the minimum of these values.
Why?
Because if for the same value we can
achieve it with this size, this size, this
size inside our Knapsack, then we might
as well use the minimum possible size.
So in A[i,v] we define
this entry of a table as
the minimum size achievable
by any subset of
the first items whose
total value equals v.
And now that we have the definition of
our GP table, we need to figure out
a recurrence so that we'll be able to
fill these entries in the algorithm.
When?
When there is some subset of
the first i items some to size
s while having total value equal to v.
Well it depends, it depends on item i.
It depends on whether item
i is in the subset or not.
Depends on whether
the subset contains item i.
Two cases, two cases.
Case one, item i is not in the subset.
Then it's easy, we just have to
look at the first i- 1 items.
And then we have to be able to
reach 5f with total value v.
Case two, item i is in the subset.
Then it's easy,
it uses size si of the Knapsack.
So the other items of the subset
must sum to size s- si.
And it gives us value vi.
So the rest of our subset
must give us value v- vi.
So this now gives us, this reasoning
now gives us a recurrence formula.
Can be expressed algebraically as follows.
Let A[i,v] Denote the minimum
size achievable by any
subset of our first i
items of total value v.
If v is greater than or equal to vi,
then A[i,v] is the minimum
of two possibilities.
The one when i Item i is in the subset,
and a one when it's not.
The minimum of two possibilities,
the first possibility is A[i- 1,v].
The second one is A[i- 1,v- vi].
That's the total size minimum achievable
by a subset of first i minus some items
that sum with total value (v-vi)+si.
The size of item i.
What about the else?
Else, else, else.
If v is strictly less than vi, then what?
Then item i cannot go in a subset and
then A[i,v], clearly is just A[i-1,v].
Simple.
So this gives us a recurrence.
We will use it to fill the table entries
by order of increasing the value of i, and
that leads us to our algorithm for
this special case.
Here's the algorithm.
I did not detail the initialization.
I did not detail the last part.
But this is easy.
You can check it yourselves,
by yourselves that this works.
What's important is the line
with the recurrence,
the line with the min, this line.
And what is the run time, run time?
Line one, O of nN.
Line two, constant.
Line three, a for
loop with time big O of n.
This for loop includes some other loops,
two loops that together have
v scanned from 0 to nN.
Why nN?
Because this is the maximum
value conceivable.
Why?
Because every item has value at most N.
Even if every item is put in the Knapsack,
the total value will be nN,
little n times capital N.
And so, because of these two for
loops, the runtime will be o(n^2N),
when capital N is a constant,
this is quadratic.
So, if we look at the main
idea of this algorithm,
how did we design this algorithm?
We have to think of trying the method
of dynamic programming, and
the main idea really came up in
the definition of the DP array.
A definition that was chosen
in just the right way so
that we would have a recurrence formula.
We look at this,
we see that it works in polynomial time.
It gives us the optimal way to
put items in our Knapsack so
as to maximize the value while
respecting the capacity.
So at this point what have we done?
We have solved the Knapsack
problem exactly in the case where
all the items had small value.
In the next part, what we will do is
build on this to design an approximation
algorithm finally for Knapsack.